>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY NOVEMBER 14th:
FRANCE'S PRESIDENT VOWS TO
RETALIATE FOR YESTERDAY'S
TERRORIST ATTACKS IN PARIS.
AS ISIS CLAIMS RESPONSIBILITY
FOR THE ATTACKS, THE MILITARY
CAMPAIGN AGAINST ISIS IN THE
MIDDLE EAST INTENSIFIES.
REPORTS AND REACTIONS FROM
PARIS, NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
FRENCH PRESIDENT FRANCOIS
HOLLANDE SAYS FRANCE WILL BE
"RUTHLESS IN ITS RESPONSE" TO
WHAT HE CALLS "AN ACT OF WAR."
NEARLY SIMULTANEOUS BOMB AND GUN
ATTACKS IN SIX LOCATIONS IN
PARIS LAST NIGHT KILLED AT LEAST
129 PEOPLE AND WOUNDED AT LEAST
350 MORE, MORE THAN 100 OF WHOM
REMAIN HOSPITALIZED IN CRITICAL
CONDITION.
SEVEN TERRORISTS KILLED
THEMSELVES IN THE SUICIDE
BOMBINGS, AND ONE WAS SHOT AND
KILLED BY FRENCH POLICE.
NONE HAVE BEEN PUBLICLY
IDENTIFIED, BUT FRENCH POLICE
SAID ONE TERRORIST CARRIED A
SYRIAN PASSPORT.
A GREEK OFFICIAL SAYS THE
PASSPORT MATCHES THE NAME OF A
SYRIAN MIGRANT WHO ARRIVED ON
THE GREEK ISLAND OF LEROS SIX
WEEKS AGO.
PRESIDENT HOLLANDE IS BLAMING
THE MILITANT GROUP ISIS FOR THE
COORDINATED ATTACKS.
ISIS ALSO CLAIMED CREDIT FOR THE
ATTACKS, SAYING IN A STATEMENT
POSTED ONLINE THAT FRANCE WILL
REMAIN ON ITS TARGET LIST AS
LONG AS THE COUNTRY IS PART OF
THE WESTERN MILITARY COALITION
FIGHTING ISIS IN SYRIA AND IRAQ.
TODAY, FRANCE DEPLOYED 1,500
ARMED SOLDIERS TO PATROL THE
STREETS OF PARIS AND PROTECT
GOVERNMENT AND CULTURAL SITES.
MARKETS, MUSEUMS, STORES AND
SCHOOLS NORMALLY OPEN ON
SATURDAY WERE CLOSED, AS WAS THE
EIFFEL TOWER.
LAST NIGHT'S ATTACKS UNFOLDED
OVER THE COURSE OF THREE HOURS.
THE ATTACKS BEGAN AT THE
NATIONAL SPORTS STADIUM, WHERE
FRANCE WAS PLAYING GERMANY IN AN
EXHIBITION SOCCER MATCH.
(EXPLOSION)
THE FIRST EXPLOSION WAS HEARD
AROUND 9:20 P.M., WHEN A SUICIDE
BOMBER BLEW HIMSELF UP OUTSIDE A
STADIUM ENTRANCE.
TEN MINUTES LATER, A SECOND
SUICIDE BOMBER BLEW HIMSELF UP
NEAR ANOTHER ENTRANCE.
FRENCH POLICE RECOVERED A SYRIAN
PASSPORT BY ONE OF THE BOMBER'S
BODIES.
FRENCH PRESIDENT FRANCOIS
HOLLANDE AND GERMANY'S FOREIGN
MINISTER WERE AMONG THE 80,000
SPECTATORS IN THE STANDS.
HOLLANDE'S SECURITY DETAIL
WHISKED THEM AWAY WITHOUT
INCIDENT.
AS POLICE CLOSED THE STADIUM
ENTRANCES, SPECTATORS SWARMED
ONTO THE FIELD AND LATER SANG
FRANCE'S NATIONAL ANTHEM.
A THIRD BOMBER BLEW HIMSELF UP
AT A FAST FOOD RESTAURANT
OUTSIDE THE STADIUM.
AS THE STADIUM ATTACKS WERE
UNDER WAY, ABOUT FOUR MILES
AWAY, GUNMEN BEGAN OPENING FIRE
AT THREE RESTAURANTS, SHOOTING
DINERS AS THEY SAT OUTSIDE ON A
FRIDAY NIGHT.
ON THE TERRACE OF THE POPULAR
CAMBODIAN RESTAURANT,
LA PETIT CAMBODGE, AT LEAST
15 DIED AND TEN WERE SEVERELY
WOUNDED.
WITNESSES DESCRIBED HEARING
SOUNDS LIKE FIREWORKS BEFORE
THEY REALIZED WHAT WAS HAPPENING
AND TRIED TO HIDE OR FLEE.
>> THIS SEEMS TO BE SOMEONE WHO
KNEW, SOME PEOPLE WHO KNEW
EXACTLY HOW TO USE GUNS BECAUSE
THEY DIDN'T SHOOT LIKE...
THEY SHOOT SLOWLY.
AND PEOPLE WERE FALLING, STRANGE
THING.
>> Sreenivasan: SEVEN MINUTES
LATER, AT A NEARBY PIZZA CAFE
AND BAR, GUNMEN SHOT AND KILLED
AT LEAST FIVE MORE PEOPLE AND
WOUNDED EIGHT.
MOVING ON TO THE CAFE-FILLED
STREET RUE DE CHARONNE FOUR
MINUTES LATER, GUNMEN SHOT AND
KILLED AT LEAST 19 PEOPLE AT LA
BELLE EQUIPE.
NINE OTHER PEOPLE WERE ALSO SHOT
AND WOUNDED.
WITNESSES SAID THE GUNFIRE ON
THE RESTAURANT LASTED TWO TO
THREE MINUTES.
ONE WOMAN DESCRIBED ENCOUNTERING
AN ATTACKER AS SHE WAS DRIVING
DOWN THE STREET.
>> (translated): HE TURNED
AROUND, AND THE FOUR OF US
IMMEDIATELY SAW HIS WEAPON, A
KALASHNIKOV.
HE STARTED FIRING IT TOWARDS US.
IT'S REALLY HORRIBLE THE MOMENT
WHEN YOU SEE HIM, AND HE'S
LOOKING AT YOU, AND YOU KNOW
HE'S GOING TO FIRE AND SHOOTS AT
YOU.
AT THAT MOMENT, I SPED UP, AND
WE DUCKED LOW.
LATER, MY FRIEND TOLD ME I'VE
BEEN HIT IN THE HEAD.
>> Sreenivasan: INSIDE A FOURTH
RESTAURANT, A SUICIDE BOMBER
BLEW HIMSELF UP, SEVERELY
INJURING ONE OTHER PERSON.
IN 20 MINUTES, THE TERRORISTS
HAD INFLICTED A TERRIBLE TOLL,
BUT THE WORST WAS YET TO COME.
AT 9:40 P.M., FOUR GUNMEN BURST
INTO THE BATACLAN CONCERT HALL,
WHERE 1,500 PEOPLE WERE WATCHING
THE CALIFORNIA ROCK BAND
EAGLES OF DEATH METAL PERFORM.
THE GUNMEN OPENED FIRE ON THE
CROWD WITH AK-47 MACHINE GUNS.
AUDIENCE MEMBERS SAID GUNMEN
SHOUTED THE ARABIC PHRASE
"ALLAHU AKBAR," MEANING "GOD IS
GREAT."
SOME HEARD REFERENCES TO SYRIA
AND IRAQ.
>> (translated): WE WERE BY
THE BAR, SO WE HEARD
FIRECRACKERS, OR WHAT WE THOUGHT
WERE FIRECRACKERS.
WE TURNED AROUND, AND THEN I SAW
TWO YOUNG MEN NO OLDER THAN 25
WITH KALASHNIKOVS.
THEY TOLD US TO LIE DOWN.
THERE WAS ONE WHO KEPT GESTURING
FOR US TO GET DOWN.
WE ALL LAY DOWN, THE WHOLE ROOM
LAY DOWN.
I WAS COMPLETELY UNDER OTHER
PEOPLE, AND THEY KEPT SHOOTING,
BUT THEY WOULD STOP FROM TIME TO
TIME.
>> Sreenivasan: AFTER A
2.5 HOUR STANDOFF, FRENCH POLICE
STORMED THE CONCERT HALL.
THREE GUNMEN BLEW THEMSELVES UP
WITH THE SAME KIND OF SUICIDE
VESTS WORN BY THE OTHER BOMBERS.
POLICE SHOT AND KILLED THE
FOURTH ATTACKER.
SURVIVORS WHO HAD BEEN HOSTAGES
WERE LED OUT OF THE MUSIC
HALL TO SAFETY.
INSIDE BATACLAN, 89 INNOCENT
VICTIMS LAY DEAD.
FOLLOWING THE TRAGIC EVENTS LAST
NIGHT, MANY PARISIANS GATHERED
AT ONE OF FRANCE'S MOST FAMOUS
PUBLIC PLAZAS.
THE NEWSHOUR'S CHRISTOPHER
BOOKER HAS MORE.
>> Reporter: TODAY, THE CITY IS
QUIET AND STREETS ARE DESERTED,
THE POLICE TELLING PEOPLE NOT TO
GATHER IN LARGE NUMBERS.
THE EMPTY STREETS INDICATE
COMPLIANCE-- THAT IS EXCEPT HERE
AT PLACE DE REPUBLIQUE, WHERE,
IN THE EARLY HOURS AFTER THE
ATTACK, PEOPLE GATHERED.
LIGHTING CANDLES FOR THE SECOND
TIME THIS YEAR, THEY RETURNED TO
THE SPACE WHERE THEY HONORED
VICTIMS OF JANUARY'S "CHARLIE
HEBDO" MASSACRE.
>> THE ONLY THING THAT WE CAN
SAY IS JUST THAT PEOPLE CAN BE
FORGIVERS, AND WE JUST NEED TO
STAY TOGETHER.
>> MUSLIMS AGAINST FRENCH
PEOPLE, BECAUSE OF TERRORISM AND
POLITICAL PROBLEMS.
>> IF THERE IS VIOLENCE UPON
VIOLENCE, WE KNOW IN 50 YEARS,
THESE CITIES ARE GOING TO BE ALL
BATTLEFIELDS.
>> I AM FRENCH.
MY COUNTRY TODAY, SHE CRY.
SORRY, WE ARE AFRAID.
WE ARE AFRAID.
>> Sreenivasan: NEWSHOUR
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT MALCOLM
BRABENT IS IN PARIS AND HAS BEEN
SPEAKING TO PEOPLE THERE ALL
DAY.
MALCOLM, GIVE US A SENSE OF WHAT
THE MOOD'S LIKE ON THE STREET.
>> IT'S NO EXAGGERATION TO SAY
THIS IS A CITY THAT HAS BEEN
COMPLETELY TRAUMATIZED BY THE
EVENTS OF LAST NIGHT, DRIVING
INTO PARIS TODAY, YOU GET THE
SENSE IT WAS COMPLETELY ERIE.
PEOPLE WERE COMPLETELY OFF THE
STREETS.
THEY WERE TAKING THE ADVICE OF
THE POLICE TO STAY HOME AND
THAT'S BECAUSE OF THE COMPLETE
UNCERTAINTY THAT THIS MAY STILL
BE SOME TERRORISTS OUT THERE.
THAT HAS BEEN RAMPED UP DURING
THE COURSE OF THE DAY BECAUSE
THERE HAVE BEEN ISIS PEOPLE
ISSUING THREATS URGING MUSLIMS
TO COME OUT AND ATTACK TARGETS
HERE, TRYING TO CAPITALIZE ON
THE FEAR THERE IS IN THE CITY.
BEHIND ME, YOU CAN SEE THE
PEOPLE ARE LIGHTING CANDLES
CLOSE TO THE CONCERT HALL WHERE
NEARLY 90 PEOPLE WERE
SLAUGHTERED.
AND PEOPLE ARE COMPLETELY
STUNNED BY WHAT HAS HAPPENED.
THEY THOUGHT THAT "CHARLIE
HEBDO" WAS ABSOLUTELY TERRIBLE,
BUT THIS IS MEMBERSHIP TIMES
WORSE.
>> Sreenivasan: I SEE TRAFFIC
AND I SEE PEOPLE ON THE STREETS,
BUT HAVE THE SHOPKEEPERS DECIDED
TO STAY CLOSED OR IS IT SLOWER
THAN A USUAL WEEKEND RIGHT NOW?
DO YOU SEE MORE POLICE PRESENCE?
>> Reporter: THIS IS NORMALLY
A BUSTLING CITY AND COMING INTO
THE CITY WAS A COMPLETE SHOCK TO
SEE HOW MANY STORES WERE CLOSED
DOWN.
IT WAS ALMOST LIKE A SUNDAY WITH
NOBODY ON THE STREETS AT ALL,
JUST CONVENIENCE STORES, THINGS
LIKE THAT.
THE PLACE WHERE'S THERE HAVE
BEEN QUEUES HAVE BEEN BLOOD
DONATION CENTERS WHERE PARISIANS
HAVE BEEN COMING OUT TO SHOW
SOLIDARITY WITH THE 90 PEOPLE
WHO ARE CRITICALLY INJURED, AND
THEY HAVE BEEN COMING OUT IN
SUCH LARGE NUMBERS, THAT THE
BLOOD CENTERS HAVE HAD TO TURN
THEM AWAY AND SEND THEM TO
OTHER PLACES.
THERE HAVE ALSO BEEN PEOPLE AT
THE HOSPITALS COMING TRYING TO
FIND LOST ONES, TRYING TO
IDENTIFY PEOPLE WHO ARE, YOU
KNOW, MISSING.
IT'S-- THERE'S STILL-- I MEAN,
GRADUALLY I THINK PARIS IS
COMING TO TERMS WITH WHAT HAS
HAPPENED BUT THERE IS STILL A
HUGE SENSE OF SHOCK HERE.
>> Sreenivasan: WE HEARD THERE
WERE MILITARY FORCES ON THE
STREET.
ARE YOU SEEING INCREASED POLICE
PRESENCE IN MOST OF THE
NEIGHBORHOODS YOU'RE TRAVELING
THROUGH?
>> Reporter: I HAVE TO SAY,
I'M QUITE SURPRISED THAT I
HAVEN'T ACTUALLY SEEN THIS MANY
POLICEMEN AS I HAVE EXPECTED TO,
ALTHOUGH THERE HAVE BEEN ABOUT
1500 SOLDIERS WHO HAVE BEEN
DEPLOYED TO PARIS.
BUT WHAT IS QUITE SIGNIFICANT IS
THAT AREA WHERE'S YOU'D EXPECT
PEOPLE TO COME TOGETHER HAVE
BEEN CLOSED DOWN, MONUMENTS SUCH
AS THE LOUVRE, THE EIFFEL TOWER.
THESE PLACES HAVE BEEN CLOSED
DOWN.
THE POLICE HAVE BEEN URGING
PEOPLE NOT TO GATHER IN GROUPS
BECAUSE OF THE POTENTIAL FOR
CAUSING A TARGET FOR OTHER
POTENTIAL TERRORISTS WHO MIGHT
BE HERE.
BUT PEOPLE ARE DEIFYING THAT
ORDER IN VARIOUS PLACES, SUCH AS
THE PLACE DE REPUBLIQUE, A PLACE
WHICH IS SYMBOLIC OF FRANCE AND
THEY'VE BEEN GATHERING AROUND
THE MONUMENT THERE, ALSO,
LIGHTING CANDLES AND TALKING IN
TERMS OF WHAT NEEDS TO HAPPEN TO
FRANCE AND BASICALLY PEOPLE ON
THE STREETS ARE SAYING THEY NEED
TO BE UNIFIED.
THEY CAN'T START TO HATE BECAUSE
THAT'S WHAT THE TERRORISTS ARE
TRYING TO CREATE WITH THE
ACTIONS THEY CARRIED OUT
YESTERDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: MALCOLM, YOU
MENTIONED THEY ARE STILL
RECOVERING IN SOME WAYS FROM THE
"CHARLIE HEBDO" ATTACK.
WHAT IS IT THAT THEY THINK NEEDS
TO BE DONE TO TRY TO KEEP
THEMSELVES SECURE?
>> Reporter: I THINK THAT
PEOPLE ARE COMPLETELY CONFUSED
ABOUT THAT-- THAT QUESTION.
I DON'T THINK PEOPLE KNOW HOW
YOU DO GENERATE SECURITY.
I WAS TALKING TO ONE MAN AT THE
PLACE DE REPUBLIQUE, AND HE SAID
YOU HAVE TO LOVE PEOPLE.
BUT THE PROBLEM IS THAT PEOPLE
HERE THINK THAT THIS, PERHAPS,
IS THE START OF SOME KIND OF
HORRENDOUS WAR THAT IS NOT ONE
THAT IS DEFINED BY SORTS OF
INTERNATIONAL WARS WE'VE HAD
BEFORE, BUT ONES THAT ARE GOING
TO BE CARRIED OUT IN TERMS OF
TERROR ATTACKS IN PLACES ALL
ACROSS EUROPE.
PERHAPS THERE IS-- THERE IS A
SENSE THAT PERHAPS THIS IS START
OF SOMETHING ELSE, THE ISLAMIC
STATE IS TRYING TO HIT OTHER
PLACES IN THE FUTURE, NOT JUST
PARIS.
THEY DO SEEM TO SAY IN THEIR
MESSAGES THAT THEY PUT OUT TODAY
CLAIMING RESPONSIBILITY FOR
THIS, THAT THEY HAVE A
PARTICULAR GRIPE AGAINST FRANCE,
AND THEY SAY THEY WILL CONTINUE
TO HIT FRANCE.
AND SO PEOPLE HERE AREN'T
NECESSARILY FEELING SECURE.
>> Sreenivasan: NEWSHOUR
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT MALCOLM
BRABENT JOINING US FROM THE
STREETS OF PARIS TONIGHT, THANKS
SO MUCH.
>> Sreenivasan: LEARN HOW
PARISIANS ARE USING SOCIAL MEDIA
TO HELP SURVIVORS OF LAST
NIGHT'S TERROR ATTACK.
VISIT US ON OUR WEB SITE AT
www.pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: FRANCE IS
PARTICIPATING IN THE U.S.-LED
AIR WAR ON ISIS TARGETS IN
SYRIA, INCLUDING TARGETING OIL
FIELDS FROM WHICH ISIS DERIVES
REVENUE TO FUND ITS MILITARY
EFFORTS.
COMPLICATING MATTERS AT HOME,
THE FRENCH GOVERNMENT BELIEVES
AS MANY AS 15,000 FRENCH
CITIZENS AND RESIDENTS HAVE
TRAVELED TO SYRIA AND IRAQ TO
FIGHT WITH ISIS AND SIMILAR
JIHADIST GROUPS.
THE PENTAGON ANNOUNCED TODAY THE
U.S. HAS CARRIED OUT ITS FIRST
AIR STRIKE ON ISIS IN LIBYA
YESTERDAY, KILLING THE SENIOR
LEADER OF ISIS THERE.
FOR MORE PERSPECTIVE ON THE WAR
ON ISIS AND THE TERRORIST
ATTACKS IN FRANCE, I AM JOINED
FROM WASHINGTON BY ANTHONY
CORDESMAN, FROM THE CENTER FOR
STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL
STUDIES.
ANTHONY, I'M ASSUMING LIKE THE
REST OF THE WORLD THAT WAS
WATCHING WHAT HAPPENED LAST
NIGHT, THIS IS A GAME CHANGER
FOR ISIS, THE ABILITY TO PULL
OFF THESE COORDINATED ATTACKS.
>> Reporter: I THINK WE NEED
TO BE VERY, VERY CAREFUL BECAUSE
AS YOU POINTED OUT, FRANCE HAS
BEEN ONE OF OUR KEY ALLIES IN
THE AIR CAMPAIGN, CERTAINLY ONE
OF THE MOST KENT.
ISIS HAS HAD WEEKS, PERHAPS
MONTHS IN WHICH TO TRY TO
ASSEMBLE AND PUT TOGETHER CELLS
IN FRANCE.
YOU HAD PREVIOUS TERRORIST
ATTACKS THERE, AS YOU HAVE IN
OTHER EUROPEAN COUNTRIES.
AND HORRIFYING AS THESE
CASUALTIES ARE, THEY CONSIST
ESSENTIALLY OF ATTACKING
UNDEFENDED CIVILIAN AREAS CHOSEN
ALMOST AT RANDOM OUT OF ALL THE
ACTIVITIES IN A MAJOR CITY.
NOW, ISIS DID FORMALLY DECLARE
WAR TWO DAYS AGO AS A RESULT OF
THE STEP-UP IN THE CAMPAIGNS
ALONG THE KURDISH AREAS.
BUT WE SHOULDN'T EXAGGERATE THAT
THIS IS SOME KIND OF GAME
CHANGER.
ISIS HAS HAD TIES TO EXTERNAL
MOVEMENTS AND EXTREME GROUPS IN
EUROPE OR THE UNITED STATES FAIR
LONG TIME.
AND THIS IS A MOMENT IN WHICH IT
HAS REASON TO TRY TO ACTIVATE
THESE FORCES.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THIS A SIGN
THAT IT'S FEEL THE PRESSURE,
THAT PERHAPS THE ATTACKS FROM
THE U.S., THE COALITION FORCE,
MAYBE EVEN PARTS OF THE RUSSIAN
AIR CAMPAIGN ARE AFFECTING IT?
>> THEY MAY WELL BE UNDER
PRESSURE.
PART OF IT IS PROBABLY THE AIR
CAMPAIGN WHICH WE LEAD, AGAIN
WITH FRENCH, AUSTRALIAN,
BRITISH AND OTHER PARTICIPATION.
PART OF IT IS THAT ON THE
GROUND, THE KURDS HAVE MADE
SIGNIFICANT GAINS IN PLACES LIKE
SINJAR.
PART OF IT IS, I THINK, QUITE
FRANKLY, THEY NEED DEMONSTRATIVE
ACTION IN TERMS OF IT
FUND-RAISING, THE KIND OF
MEDIA-GRABBING POLITICAL ACTION
YOU GET THROUGH THIS KIND OF
ALMOST RANDOM, VERY, VERY
VISIBLE BLOODY ATTACK IN A CITY
LIKE PARIS.
SO ALL OF THESE FACTORS COME
TOGETHER, AND THERE ARE REASONS
WHY IT SHOULD ACT NOW.
>> Sreenivasan: DOES THIS HELP
IN THEIR RECURRING EFFORT TO NOT
JUST SAY AS YOU MENTIONED
HIGH-VISIBILITY ATTACK BUT TO
TRY TO FIGURE OUT WHOEVER IS ON
THE BUBBLE IN THESE COUNTRIES
AND RADICALIZE THEM.
>> YOU RAISE A VERY GOOD POINT
BECAUSE, YES, IT SOUNDS IN SOME
WAYS ALMOST LIKE IT SHOULD BE
THE OPPOSITE.
BUT IT IS TRUE THAT PEOPLE WHO
ARE ALIENATED, PEOPLE WHO
ALREADY ARE ON THE EDGE ARE
BEING WILLING TO JOIN A MOVEMENT
LIKE ISIS.
THEY'RE ALREADY GOING TO BE
MOTIVATED IN SEEING THIS KIND OF
VERY HIGH-PROFILE EVENT, NOT
ONLY LEADS TO MORE VOLUNTEERS.
IT LEADS PEOPLE TO CONTRIBUTE
MONEY.
WE'RE TALKING A VERY, VERY SMALL
MARGIN OF PEOPLE.
SOMETIMES WHEN WE TALK ABOUT
THESE NUMBERS OF VOLUNTEERS,
PEOPLE TALK ABOUT THEM BEING SO
HIGH.
IN COMPARATIVE TERMS, THEY'RE
ALMOST INCREDIBLY SMALL COMPARED
TO OTHER IDEOLOGICAL MOVEMENTS
AND THEIR ABILITY TO ATTRACT
YOUNG EXTREMISTS.
BUT THEY'RE STILL HIGH ENOUGH TO
CREATE THE KIND OF NIGHTMARE
WE'VE SEEN IN PARIS
>> Sreenivasan: DOES THIS
CHANGE THE COALITION OR THE
WEST'S RESPONSE TO ISIS TO SEE
SOMETHING LIKE THIS HAPPEN IN A
MAJOR CITY?
>> THE PROBLEM IS YOU CAN'T
SUDDENLY DEFEAT ISIS IN SYRIA
AND IRAQ IN THE FIRST PLACE.
AND THEN THE SECOND, THE MORE
YOU STEP UP YOUR MILITARY ACTION
IN SYRIA AND IRAQ IN THE SHORT
RUN, THE MORE ISIS MAY ACTUALLY
ACT OUT BY TRIGGERING WHATEVER
RESOURCES IT HAS IN OTHER
COUNTRIES.
AND THERE THE ONLY THING THAT
REALLY COUNTS IS THE
COUNTER-TERRORISM CAMPAIGN AND
HOW EFFECTIVE THOSE
COUNTER-TERRORIST FORCES ARE.
THEY ARE NOTHING TO DO WITH
STEPPING UP THE OFFENSIVE IN
IRAQ AND SYRIA
>> Sreenivasan: ANTHONY
CORDESMAN JOINING US FROM
WASHINGTON, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: LEADERS FROM THE
U.S., RUSSIA, IRAN,
SAUDI ARABIA AND TURKEY ARE
MEETING IN VIENNA, AUSTRIA, THIS
WEEKEND TO DISCUSS WAYS TO END
THE WAR IN SYRIA AND A POST-WAR
TRANSITIONAL GOVERNMENT.
THOUGH NO DELEGATION FROM SYRIA
IS AT THE NEGOTIATING TABLE,
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
SAID TODAY THERE COULD BE NEW
ELECTIONS IN SYRIA WITHIN
18 MONTHS.
HE REFERRED TO THE TERRORIST
GROUP ISIS BY ITS ARABIC NAME,
"DAESH."
>> THE IMPACTS OF THIS WAR BLEED
INTO ALL OF OUR NATIONS, FROM
THE FLOOD OF DESPERATE MIGRANTS
SEEKING REFUGE WITHIN THE REGION
OR IN EUROPE OR BEYOND, TO THE
FOREIGN TERRORIST FIGHTERS WHO
MAKE THEIR WAY INTO SYRIA TO
JOIN THE RANKS OF GROUPS LIKE
DAESH, TO SELF-RADICALIZED
FIGHTERS LIVING AMONG US.
>> Sreenivasan: "NEW YORK TIMES"
REPORTER JULIE DAVIS IS COVERING
THE SYRIA PEACE TALKS AND JOINS
ME BY PHONE FROM VIENNA.
HOW SIGNIFICANTLY HAS LAST
NIGHT'S ATTACKS PLAYED INTO THE
CONVERSATION?
>> Reporter: WELL, I THINK IT
REALLY STIFFENS EVERYONE'S
RESOLVE, AS JOHN KERRY SAID, TO
COME OUT WITH SOMETHING CONCRETE
FROM THESE MEETINGS.
EVERYONE TOOK A MOMENT OF
SILENCE IN THE BEGINNING OF THE
MINISTERIAL.
EVERYONE WAS VERY SOMBER AND
VERY DETERMINED TO MAKE SOME
HEADWAY HERE IN LIGHT OF THE
ATTACKS THAT REALLY UNDERSCORED
THE CHALLENGE THEY'RE FACING,
TRYING TO CONFRONT THE ISLAMIC
STATE AND, YOU KNOW, ITS EFFECTS
ON THE REGION BUT ALSO,
OBVIOUSLY, WELL BEYOND THE
REGION.
IT DID LEND A SENSE OF
URGENCY, AND THEY MADE SOME
HEADWAY, BUT I WOULD SAY THEY
WERE LOOKING FOR A LOT MORE
MOMENTUM THAN THEY MAYBE WERE
ABLE TO GET BECAUSE THERE ARE
STILL SOME PRETTY SIGNIFICANT
REMAINING ISSUES
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ARE THEY
HOPING TO ACCOMPLISH AND WHAT'S
STANDING IN BETWEEN TODAY AND
THAT POINT?
>> WELL, THEY DID COME UP WITH A
TIMETABLE FOR ACTION ON A
POLITICAL TRANSITION IN SYRIA,
WHICH IS IMPORTANT.
IT'S A PRETTY OPTIMISTIC
TIMETABLE.
THEY WANT TO GET OPPOSITION
GROUPS TOGETHER BY JANUARY 1,
AND GET THEM TALKING WITH THE
GOVERNMENT OF SYRIA AND THE
BASHAR AL-ASSAD IN THE NEXT SIX
MONTHS AFTER THAT, TO TRY TO
COME UP WITH A UNITY GOVERNMENT
AND CONSTITUTION AND THEN
ELECTIONS IN 18 MONTHS.
THAT'S A PRETTY AMBITIOUS
TIMETABLE, AND SECRETARY KERRY
ACKNOWLEDGED THAT, AND EVERYONE
AT THE TABLE I THINK
ACKNOWLEDGED THAT IT'S A LONG
SHOT BUT THAT'S A CONCRETE
TIMETABLE AND THAT REPRESENTS
PROGRESS HERE.
AND THEY ALSO, YOU KNOW, AGREED
THEY IN PARALLEL SEEK A
CEASE-FIRE.
BUT AGAIN, FOR THAT TO HAPPEN
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO FIGURE
OUT WHAT THE FATE OF BASHAR
AL-ASSAD IS GOING TO BE, WHAT
ROLE HE'S GOING TO PLAY.
AND THEY HAVE TO IDENTIFY WHO
THEY'RE GOING TO TREAT AS A
TERRORIST GROUP AND WHO THEY'RE
GOING TO TREAT AS A LEGITIMATE
OPPOSITION GROUP THAT GETS TO
HAVE A SEAT AT THE TABLE IN THE
TRANSITION TALKS.
AND THOSE ARE VERY BIG TASKS
THAT THEY ACCEPT FOR
THEMSELVES IN THE NEXT SIX
MONTHS.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THERE
ISN'T ANYBODY FROM ASSAD'S
GOVERNMENT AT THIS TABLE IN
THESE CONVERSATIONS.
IS RUSSIA SUPPOSED TO BE THE
PROXY THAT TAKES THE MESSAGE
BACK?
>> THAT'S RIGHT, THEY'RE NOT AT
THE TABLE AND THEY HAVEN'T BEEN
AT THE TABLE.
THE GROUP IS GOING TO MEET AGAIN
NEXT MONTH, AND IT'S NOT CLEAR
IF THEY WILL BE AT THE TABLE AT
THAT POINT.
THEY ARE-- THE U.N. ENVOY,
SPECIAL ENVOY TO SYRIA WAS HERE,
AND HE IS GOING TO BE
SPEARHEADING THE PROCESS OF
TRYING TO GET THE OPPOSITION
GROUPS AND ASSAD TO THE TABLE TO
TRY TO START TALKING BUT UNTIL
THEY'RE IN A POSITION TO DO
THAT, THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE A
PARTY TO THE TALKS AND THAT'S A
BIG IMPEDIMENT.
SECRETARY KERRY SAID WE'RE NOT
TRYING TO IMPOSE A SOLUTION ON
ANYONE BUT AS LONG AS THEY'RE
NOT AT THE TABLE AND WE HAVE
INTERESTS IN SYRIA THAT WE'RE
TRYING TO EXECUTE ON-- NAMELY,
THAT ASSAD MUST GO-- AND THE
RUSSIANS HAVE INTERESTS THAT
THEY'RE TRYING TO EXECUTE ON AND
THEY SAY THAT ASSAD IS NOT THE
PROBLEM HERE AND HE CAN BE PART
OF A SOLUTION, IT'S HARD TO SEE
THEM MAKING A MUCH MORE
SIGNIFICANT HEADWAY.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THERE ANY
PART OF THIS CONVERSATION THAT
INCLUDES PERHAPS INCREASED
COORDINATION OF MILITARY
ACTIVITIES BETWEEN THE RUSSIAN
AIRSTRIKES HAPPENING AND THE
U.S. AIRSTRIKES HAPPENING IN
SYRIA?
>> THEY DID TALK ABOUT THAT.
IT CAME UP, AND BASICALLY THEY
HAVE BEEN INVOLVED, AS YOU
KNOW-- THEY'RE BASICALLY NOT
BOMBING AT EACH OTHER OR FLYING
AT EACH OTHER.
BUT THERE STILL IS A LEVEL OF
COORDINATION I THINK THAT RUSSIA
IS SEEKING THAT THEY'RE NOT
GETTING FOR THE UNITED STATES
AND, YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT'S
ALSO A KEY STICK POINT HERE, AND
A REASON THAT THEY'RE NOT MAKING
AS MUCH PROGRESS AS THEY WANT TO
ON THE OTHER PIECE, ON THE
DIPLOMATIC PIECE BECAUSE THERE
IS A FEELING THERE COULD BE MORE
COORDINATION AND RUSSIA AND HAS
OFFICER, THE FOREIGN MINISTER,
SAID AT THE END OF THE TALKS
THAT WOULD BE IN EVERYONE'S
INTEREST IF THERE WAS MORE
COORDINATION BETWEEN THEM AND
THE UNITED STATES AND THE REST
OF THE COALITION
>> Sreenivasan: BESIDES THE
MILITARY POSTURE OF ALL THE
COUNTRIES INVOLVED WHAT, ABOUT
THE HUMANITARIAN AID, AND
PERHAPS ANY AGREEMENT ON WHAT
THESE COUNTRIES ARE GOING TO DO
TO TRY TO HELP THE PEOPLE OF
SYRIA THAT ARE STILL THERE.
>> THAT'S AN ELEMENT THEY TALKED
A LOT ABOUT, AND A PIECE OF
REALLY TRYING TO FIGURE OUT A
WAY TOWARDS THIS POLITICAL
PROCESS.
I THINK THEY ACKNOWLEDGE IN
ORDER TO GET THE OPPOSITION
GROUPS TO THE TABLE AND FORD
HAVE A LEGITIMATE PROCESS THAT
EVERYONE FEELS IS IN THE
INTEREST OF THE SYRIAN PEOPLE,
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO DO MORE
OF THAT.
AND THEY DID ACTUALLY AGREE IN
TERMS OF THE POLITICAL PROCESS
THAT THE DIASPORA SHOULD BE PART
OF THE ULTIMATE ELECTIONS THAT
TAKE PLACE, WHICH IS A MAJOR
ELEMENT HERE, AND I THINK IT
SPEAKS TO THEIR DESIRE TO HAVE
THIS NOT LOOK LIKE IT'S AN
OUTSIDE SOLUTION BEING IMPOSED
FROM ABOVE, FROM OUTSIDE OF
SYRIA
>> Sreenivasan: "NEW YORK
TIMES" REPORTER JULIE DAVIS
JOINING US ON THE PHONE FROM
VIENNA.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: AS FRANCE BEGINS
TO MOURN ITS LOSSES, MANY IN THE
COUNTRY AND BEYOND ARE SHOWING
THEIR SUPPORT.
THE NEWSHOUR'S STEPHEN FEE HAS
MORE.
>> Reporter: ACROSS FRANCE, THE
MOOD WAS SOMBER AS PEOPLE LEFT
THEIR HOMES TO PAY THEIR
RESPECTS TO THE DECEASED.
OUTSIDE THE LE CARILLON
RESTAURANT, THE SCENE OF ONE OF
THE SIX ATTACKS, A TEMPORARY
MEMORIAL HAS ALREADY SPRUNG UP.
MANY LEFT FLOWERS.
SOME COULD NOT HOLD BACK THE
TEARS.
FLAGS THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY
FLEW AT HALF STAFF.
BLACK RIBBONS WERE ON DISPLAY
AS A SIGN OF MOURNING.
CITIES AROUND THE WORLD ARE ALSO
PAYING TRIBUTE TO THE ATTACK
VICTIMS.
FROM BERLIN, TO COPENHAGEN, TO
DELHI.
10,000 MILES FROM FRANCE, IN
AUSTRALIA, THE SYDNEY OPERA
HOUSE DISPLAYED THE COLORS OF
THE FRENCH FLAG, IN SOLIDARITY
WITH FRANCE.
IN NEW YORK, THE WORLD TRADE
CENTER'S SPIRE WAS ALSO LIT WITH
THE FLAG'S COLORS-- BLUE, WHITE
AND RED.
BEFORE SOCCER MATCHES BEGAN
TODAY IN ENGLAND, STADIUM CROWDS
PAUSED FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE.
IN SEOUL, SOUTH KOREA, PEOPLE
GATHERED IN FRONT OF THE FRENCH
EMBASSY TO LIGHT CANDLES, LAY
FLOWERS AND PAY THEIR RESPECTS.
THE SCENE WAS THE SAME IN
MOSCOW.
>>(translated):I AM HERE TO
SUPPORT.
FRANCE IS ALWAYS IN MY HEART AND
PARIS IS ALWAYS IN MY HEART.
>> (translated): I THINK
FRANCE WILL FIND STRENGTH AND
COME UP WITH A PROPER RESPONSE.
>> Sreenivasan: NEW INFORMATION
TONIGHT ABOUT SOME OF THE FIRST
AMERICAN VICTIMS OF THE ATTACK
IN PARIS.
NOHEMI GONZALEZ, A 23-YEAR-OLD
JUNIOR FROM CAL-STATE LONG BEACH
WAS KILLED.
SHE HAD BEEN STUDYING ABROAD IN
FRANCE THIS SEMESTER.
A SECOND AMERICAN WOMAN
UNDERWENT SURGERY TONIGHT AFTER
BEING SHOT IN THE LEG WHILE IN
THE CONCERT HALL WHERE 89 PEOPLE
WERE KILLED.
BEFORE PRESIDENT OBAMA LEFT FOR
TURKEY FOR A 20-NATION ECONOMIC
SUMMIT TODAY, NATIONAL SECURITY
COUNCIL AIDS TOLD HIM THERE ARE
NO SPECIFIC NEW TERRORIST
THREATS AGAINST THE U.S., AND
THE U.S. HAS NO INFORMATION TO
TO CONTRADICT FRANCE'S
ASSESSMENT OF ISIS'
RESPONSIBILITY FOR YESTERDAY'S
ATTACKS.
BELGIAN AUTHORITIES HAVE
ARRESTED SEVERAL PEOPLE
SUSPECTED OF LINKS TO THE
ATTACKERS.
A CAR WITH A BELGIUM LICENSE
PLATE WAS SEEN OUTSIDE THAT
CONCERT HALL.
TONIGHT, JOIN US ONLINE FROM
9:00 TO 11:00 EASTERN AS THE
DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES MEET ON THE DEBATE
STAGE IN IOWA.
FOLLOW OUR LIVE BLOG AT
www.pbs.org/newshour AND SHARE
YOUR VIEWS @NEWSHOUR ON
TWITTER.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.